All right, so if you felt like that was to conceptualize were there is too much hand-waving going on
now we're going to read arrive the same exact result by food back you put up within the derivation of
this equation and showing how the result we just arrived early pops straight out from mathematical principles.
If you run through back from the back preceding part of this starvation, so what we found?
We derive this guy is, we said all we need to do is we need to take a look at in waves, right?
If we do that, the results should just fall right out.
So we said, Terence, when he's emitting some kind of being some kind of radar signal, what he says
is that he's seen as little waves or cosine.
In this case, the real component is defined as an amplitude A and the cosine of omega T minus K X were
measured.
Your angular frequency and K is your wave number.
So using this, we know that the result is measured in the radar system and in order to get the correct
result when he jump to relativity, what did I suggest?
I suggest that you must be very cognizant and stay in tune with what reference frame.
Each measurement is made within an account for each one consistently.
So we're going to be very careful about where this electromagnetic wave is being measured and what the
X component and the key component, how that's actually measured.
So we know that initially when this was shot off Tarrant's, it's going to measure some kind of wave
in his wave generator, his pulse pulse train.
And we ended up with the falling relationship here where we had the Cosine two PI final times T minus
two pi, f not x oversee, right?
We had that relationship between our weight number and our angular frequency omega.
And then when we had this, what we did is we said we could take this angular point and all we need
to do is just take the derivative right.
We stated that if the target wants to predict its frequency after our prime, all he needs to do is
fill up.
He just says I take one or two pi and multiply it by the derivative D Theta D T.
But the important thing here is to say or rather to question.
What is the time and how is that measured and how is this angle measured?
So according to Philip, he's going to measure it.
The only way you can measure it is in his reference rate and that broken train is moving.
So his time is different than the time of the wave train that was sent out.
So we put a little prime to designate that here are no good accounting, good organizational skills.
We put a price for the theater so we could take this guy here, but we have to make note that it's measured
in Terrence's reference frames.
So let's do that right now.
So what we did in our derivation.
We said one or two pi times the derivative and Phillips reference frame of this quantity here.
So we grouped the two by, if not, we pull them out and then we just get T minus x number.
So this is where we left off in the previous derivation, which you should feel comfortable with.
You don't feel comfortable with that.
Back up a bit in the different lectures review.
That's before you proceed.
But what we need to do now is make note that, OK.
Again, as I said, this quantity is theta.
It's not theta prime.
So to convert to Theta Prime, we would need to convert this tea and this X into that measured by Philip.
OK.
So when we take this and we keep track of the derivative, what variable that's in terms of, we're
going to find that the correct result pops out due to the chain.
OK.
And I'll do in the next portion of this derivation, I'll use the Lawrence transformation where we could
actually factor these guys out the X in the Ti to get x prime and Ti prime.
But we're going to let the math handle that.
OK, so we could do going up here.
We know that the two pie pops out that cancels with this guy.
So that cancels with that the f.
Not that's the source frequency as measured by Terrance.
That's going to pop out and.
We get the following.
So when we apply or derivative, we're going to get a third of tea with respect to tea from that looks
a little weird.
We'll go over that in a little bit and then we get the minus one over C because the derivative of a
constant it pops out from the C pops out.
And then we take the derivative of X as measured by parents with respect to the time as measured by
fill up.
So again, this is sort of a weird idea here.
When we get when we get this term, the X, the prime like what?
What does that actually mean?
Because we have an ambiguous relationship between these two frames so well, you really have to do is,
well, this guy.
This is in terms of time, right?
So all you can really do is DST and then use the the chain rule because, right, we're doing it in
terms of teh prime.
And I know that T is a function of T price.
So the way I should have really written this is that like that.
So you take it with that.
You do d, d, c times d t, d t, right?
So it sounds a little weird.
Let me read it out for you.
D T, D T, right?
So we get the following derivative right here, thanks to the Chabrol.
So what we can do is this well, we can use this guy right here.
So what's the derivative of this, the spec to try?
Well, it's just, well, we take this guy here.
That guy pops up, right?
So this.
It's no different than Gamma, and we could do the same thing here, Gamma.
All right, the gamma pops out.
OK.
Because remember, this is the important fact this guy is a constant because the relative and sea are
not changing in special relativity, right?
That's part of our assumption.
So if this is constant, we have Constantine's a thriller that is just the constant.
That's all I did.
So we see that by keeping track of our reference frames, labeling everything appropriately following
the math, the chain rule pops out this Lorenz turn.
OK, so we get the following as such.
And then we just pull this guy out, say we get gamma times one minus B relative privacy, right?
The gavel popped out times our source frequency.
And when you look at this, you say, Oh, wait a minute.
That's the result.
We had previously worked for further.
We would get the same result.
So again.
It's sort of a more mathematical approach to what we were doing.
You could do what we did previously say conceptually this if not, is measured in terms of parents,
and we just have to get a gamma that doesn't really sit as well with me.
So I want to run through this and show you that, yes, if you make use of your your relative relativistic
ideas and so on and so forth that you've been practicing, you can get the result from mathematical
principles.
And that's what I want to do is wrap up this derivation of the relativistic Doppler shift.
I want to read to write this using the Lorenz transformation so that it can be useful as a third derivation.
And then I want to compare this result.
The final result that we got previously, you know, the square root of one minus the rollover C or
the square one plus irrelevancy.
I want to compare that to the non realistic equation, which we found to be pretty accurate for a lot
of manmade vehicles.
And see if it's similar or if it's completely and utterly different.
Stay tuned.